Welcome to the Outshift platform!
¶
Accelerate delivery of production-ready solutions
Published Docs
¶
Auto-generated by this CI Job:
Explore our platform
¶
Introduction
Learn how choosing the Outshift platform makes your job easier.
Onboarding
Get onboarded to Outshift Platform with a step-by-step guide and helpful links. Jump right into code and get your project started with helloworld examples.
CSDL
Platform Security and CSDL engagement
Services
Detailed documentation of the available services.
Projects
Outshift project specific guides and on-call playbooks.
Operations
Outshift Platform Engineering team operational guides like oncall, incident management, production changes, etc.
Platform Support
¶
To get support from the Outshift Platform Engineering team, please submit a request through Jira Service Desk.
Outshift Platform Support Portal:
https://go2.cisco.com/OPEng_ServiceDesk
For detailed instructions on how to use the
Outshift Platform Support Portal
please see the
Platform Support Documentation
General inquiries about Outshift Platform.
Ask Outshift SRE
On-Call Emergencies:
¶
DO NOT use the following for non critical events
.  The individual paged is likely not in your timezone and triggering an alert
will
result in an interruption and it may very well be the middle of the night where they live.
Submit the Service Desk
incident
or
service request
with priority
P1
to automatically create a PagerDuty incident. The on-call engineer will be paged and we will make contact within 15 minutes of the case being created.
The Outshift Platform Engineering team maintains on-call schedules for production services in
PagerDuty (cisco-Outshift.pagerduty.com)
.
Platform updates and notifications Webex space
¶
Receive important platform updates and notifications about Outshift Platform at
Outshift Platform Status Webex Space
Documentation Feedback
¶
If you have any questions or feedback about docs, please reach out to us in the
Outshift Platform Documentation Feedback Webex space
2025-02-11