SRE responsibilities
engagement model
platform introduction
value proposition
Home
What is Outshift (formerly ETI) Platform
¶
The Outshift Platform is a set of
common tools and services
designed to
accelerate
the development and release of
secure
and
reliable
products. These tools and services can be categorized into the following primary areas:
Continuous Integration/Continous Delivery (CI/CD)
Automated build pipelines and multi-cluster deployments to accelerate development lifecycle
Registered with ST&O (security) and meets Build Environment Security (BES) requirements
Venture teams (application teams) own their project and build scripts, leveraging common pipeline library as needed (eg. for secrets management, artifact publishing, container scanning, and more)
Overall system health and build agents (both on prem and in cloud) managed and monitored by SRE
Artifact Services
Reliable storage and distribution of outputs of build pipelines for both internal and end-user use.
"Batteries Included" Kubernetes Environments
K8s clusters pre-provisioned with common "baseapps" to enable monitoring and automated management of certificates, dns, secrets, etc.
Clusters are deployed in a manner to meet Cisco security standards: VPC configuration, bastion hosts, hardened images, tagging, access rules, and more.
Owned and managed by ETI SRE team.
Data Services
Access to security-hardened and monitored data services (e.g., Postgres).  As a rule, SRE leverages services from IaaS providers for production use cases.
Observability
Access to logs and metrics to monitor the state of deployed infrastructure and services
SLI standards (guidelines and examples) to measure service reliability
Dashboards and alerting rules "as-code" to automate monitoring all instances of a service
Shared Responsibility for Cisco Secure Development Lifecycle (CSDL)
CSDL
is a set of policies and process workflows to ensure Cisco products are developed securely and continuously assessed for vulnerabilities. The
Cloud Control Framework (CCF)
is a set of controls tailored to protecting cloud offerings.
The SRE team is actively engaged with S&TO team to ensure that the tools and services provided by the ETI Platform adheres to CCF controls. See
this doc
for a detailed breakdown of which controls  are satisfied by ETI Platform.
Additional Resources and Support
For special/early projects that are not ready to consume standard ETI Platform tools, SRE team also supports dev-only environments, such as dedicated vms, lab resources, and 'scratch' cloud accounts.
SRE team works closely with venture teams to understand their changing needs and identify new services and tools to add to the ETI Platform.
Outshift Platform Value Proposition
¶
Provides the
right tools and services
at the right phase of the project
Security compliance out-of-box
Collaborate and adapt the platform to team's needs
SRE Team's Responsibilities
¶
Responsible for creating and evolving the environments, tooling, and practices leveraged by ETI application teams to deliver their cloud-native SaaS applications.
Provide tools and services for building and testing, deployment, monitoring, and remediation which are leveraged by all teams.
Responsible for certain shared data services such as databases or message queues.
Deep expertise in maintaining a Secure, Highly available, Observable, and Scalable cloud platform and pipeline so other teams don't have to re-invent the wheel.
Engagement Model
¶
Step 1: Engagement meeting
¶
Initial engagement and understand the phase of the project
Step 2: Access to resources
¶
Setup access to various tools
Step 3: CI/CD setup
¶
Setup CI/CD for your project apps
Step 4: Ongoing Engagement (Production Readiness, SLIs, SLOs, High Availability, Scaling)
¶
Ongoing check-ins to meet project needs
Production Readiness
High Avaibility
Scaling the apps
SLIs/SLOs
2024-02-14