guide
sandbox
AWS Cloud Sandboxes Home
¶
Overview
¶
The ET&I SRE team provides "sandbox" environments to teams which are essentially free-form access to cloud resources
with guard rails.
These environments are intended to support testing, development and experimentation in a safe, isolated space with the
aim of speeding along development by providing some common, baseline infrastructure teams can use as a starting point
for their workloads.
Purpose
¶
Shared sandboxes are used for proofs-of-concept, when a team has pre-existing work/products built outside of shared
Kubernetes platforms (such as K3s) and/or for testing integrations with cloud-native resources. The resources created
in shared sandboxes are generally intended to be ephemeral. If you would like to discuss how to enable more durable
persistence in sandboxes, please reach out to the SRE team.
Is a Sandbox Appropriate for Our Team?
¶
The use cases outlined above are most common. If you fall outside one of those use cases and think a shared sandbox
would be helpful, please contact the SRE team:
Webex Teams
Create a Jira Ticket
E-mail:
eti-sre@cisco.com
Security
¶
Cisco resources in the cloud are valuable. The sandbox environments help you to build resources on a secure foundation,
leveraging the resources of not only the SRE team, but the larger security community in Cisco, including Cloud9 and CSB.
Cost Control and Management
¶
Costs of sandboxes are not directly your concern; however, the resource tagging built into the shared sandboxes allows
you and us to quickly and effectively monitor and predict those costs.
On-boarding
¶
Before you can begin creating resources, we must overcome some bureau-technical hurdles. These steps are dependent on
the more generic
venture on-boarding
.
Venture Tasks
¶
Ensure access to
wwwin-github.cisco.com
SRE Tasks
¶
Create infrastructure repository in GitHub
Clone from
sre-tf-group-team-infra
Naming convention is
sre-tf-<group>-<team>-infra
Ensure the proper teams have access to the repository, including the automation teams.
Set up the webhook for Atlantis
Set up Hosted Zone in AWS for sub-domain
Combined Tasks
¶
Update Terraform code with group name, team name and DNS Hosted Zone
Update
atlantis.yaml
Walk through updating Terraform code and using Atlantis
Next Steps
¶
These documents outline how to prepare and use ET&I's sandbox environments:
Creating Sandbox Infrastructure
Accessing Sandbox Infrastructure via SSH
2023-02-10