configure custom alert routing
custom alerting routing pagerduty
Central Grafana Alert Routing Overview
¶
!!! warning This documentation is deprecated, we are using splunk now for observability
Alert rules notifications configuration are based on predefined labels that have been alredy created by platform team and shared below on Labels section.
Note
please be consious that the list is not exhaustive, it is working on progress.
In order to specify who should receive a notification, when an alert rule fires, you should add some labels (see screenshot below) on Labels section and then select "Use notificatin policy" on Notifications section.
Please try to preview routing using "Preview routing" buttom and be sure you are routing to the right contact point.
Lables
¶
Alert Rule
¶
Naming Convention
¶
We define a naming convention for alert rules, please use the following format:
<APPLICATION>-<ENV>-<METRIC>-<SEVERITY>
Example:
Motific Prod RDS WriteIOPS High Priority
APPLICATION: Motific
ENV: Prod
METRIC: RDS WriteIOPS
SEVERITY: High Priority
Evaluation Groups
¶
All alert rules are grouped by evaluation group list for each component (apisec, dragonfly, apisec ...). These evaluation groups define a regular time interval to evaluate an alert rule for each environment (dev, staging, prod ...)
When you add new alert rule, please specify the right folder and evaluation group.
Alert Rules
¶
Below an example of alert rules defined for Motific component on Motific Prod evaluation group.
Notification Policies
¶
Notification policies determine how alerts are routed to contact points, they are created and managed by platform team. Everyone has access to get policies. In order to add new component, please open a service desk request.
Contact Points
¶
Contact points define the way how to notify when an alert fires, they are manages also by platform team.
Based on the labels you have specified, your alert will be routed to teh right notification policy, which will notify the contact point that have been defined.
2025-06-20