1password
personal secrets
share secrets
Using 1Password to share secrets
¶
Pre-Requisites
¶
You have installed and configured
1Password
license for your user account
Warning
During the account creation process, you will be asked to create a new master password to login with. This is your 1 password, make sure it is something you are able to easily remember, yet secure enough to protect your secrets. DO NOT use the same password as your CEC account.
You have installed the 1Password client application on your local desktop
Tip
CISCO employees receive a 1Password license for usage on their work machines, and 1-5 accounts/licenses may be used for personal/family use. It is strongly recommended to create a separate account for personal use, and not to mix personal and work secrets in the same account.
Steps
¶
Open the 1Password application on your local desktop and login with your master password.
Once logged in, you will see a list of vaults on the left-hand side. Select the (
CISCO Systems
) vault you would like to share a secret from.
Create a new (temporary) item by clicking the
+ New Item
button on the top right-hand side of the window.
Select the
Password
or
SSH Key
(if you are trying to share a private/public key with someone from the team) type from the list of item types.
Copy the secret you would like to share from
Keeper
and paste it into the
Password
field.
Or paste the SSH key by clicking the
Add Private Key
and selecting
Paste Key from Clipboard
from the dropdown menu.
Click the
Save
button to save the new item to the vault.
Once saved click on the
Share
button on the top right-hand side of the window.
Enter the email address of the person(s) you would like to share the secret with, and click the
Get Link to Share
button.
Note
Notice that you may select the Link expiration timeframe, the lowest being 1 hour, and the highest being 1 month. It is recommended to use the lowest possible timeframe to minimize the risk of the secret being exposed. Also take note that the user DOES NOT need to have a 1Password account to access the shared secret, he/she will go through a verification process to access the secret when clicking on this link.
Once the link is generated, you may copy and paste it into an email or chat message to the person(s) you would like to share the secret with.
IMPORTANT
Delete the secret (by right clicking on the selected item) as soon as the person has confirmed that they have received it, and that it is working as expected.
2024-03-03